## Executing a BeTFSM Tree under ROS2 with cROSpi



### Install Crospi

For the installation of Crospi, see the following [documentation site](https://rob.pages.gitlab.kuleuven.be/crospi/)

For the installation of BeTFSM, see [installation of BeTFSM](installation.md)

### Run Crospi
Once installed, it is recommended to install the `crospi_application_template` in your workspace and:

- Run RVIZ and Robotstate publisher:
```
https://github.com/Robotics-Research-Group-KUL/betfsm
```
- Run the Crospi Node:
```
ros2 run crospi_core crospi_node --ros-args -p config_file:='$[crospi_application_template]/applications/application_example_tutorials/application_example_tutorials.setup.json' -p simulation:=true
```
### The ROS2/cROSpi BeTFSM examples
This would allow e.g.
a robot to continue until he is in a safe state befo
The BeTFSM examples related to cROSpi can be found in the [./betfsm/betfsm_demos/betfsm_demos](https://github.com/Robotics-Research-Group-KUL/betfsm/tree/main/betfsm_demos/betfsm_demos) directory.

|   **example**      |   **description**                    |
|----------------|-----------------------|
| skill_example_1.py | Most basic example of running cROSpi using BeTFSM.  The main application is<br> defined as a [TickingStateMachine][betfsm.TickingStateMachine] |
| skill_example_2.py | Most basic example of running cROSpi using BeTFSM.  The main application is<br> defined as a [Sequence][betfsm.Sequence] |
| skill_example_3.py | The first example of practical use.  This example shuts down robot motion <br>when you press Ctrl-C (recommended that you always do this).  Will be<br> discussed below. |
| skill_example_4.py | This example gives another way of handling an interruption: continue the  <br>the application, until you are in a safe position such as home before<br> you stop.        |
| example_with_output.py | In this example the last 20 samples of the output of the MovingSpline <br>task is recorded and stored in the blackboard                                              |
| example_advanced.py | A more complicated example showcasing the possibilities of <br>[eventhandling and conditions](event.md) in cROSpi |

!!! info
    In the tutorial below, we discuss mostly Ctrl-C handling. However, 
    we can react to many types of events. **example_advanced.py** shows examples of other events such as HTTP events or timing events.

### Guiding example

We use **skill_example_3.py** to guide us through the most important points: 

```python linenums="1"
--8<-- "betfsm_demos/betfsm_demos/skill_example_3.py:30:"
```
### ROS2 setup and RosRunner

The following happens in the above code:

- line 25 is necessary to start/initialize ROS2
- line 26 creates a ROS2 node by using BeTFSM's singleton class: it only creates a node once,
  and whenever a default node is required, it will get this singleton node.
- line 41-46, with run the full BeTFSM tree `sm` using ROSRunner and ensure that when something happens the ROS node is properly cleaned up. In a ROS2 environment, you run  your BeTFSM tree using [RosRunner][betfsm_ros.ROSRunner].  This ensures that ROS2 can simulatneously react to topics and other ROS2 interactions **and** run the BeTFSM tree.

### Ctrl-C handling


- line 15-24, with run the full BeTFSM tree `sm` using ROSRunner and ensure that when something
  happens the ROS node is properly cleaned up. 
- line 35-37, we create our BeTFSM tree (in this case, generated by a function MySequence() ) The `cleanup_sm` subtree is defined to cleanup if a Ctrl-C events happen, we use these two subtrees to define the final BeTFSM tree `sm` that checks Ctrl-C and calls cleanup to stop the robot moving. See the **eventhandling** described in [event](event.md)
- line 41-46, Uses [ROSRunner][betfsm_ros.ROSRunner] to run the full BeTFSM tree and at the
  same time checks for ROS2 events such as incomming topics. 

### CrospiTask

- line 31-32 creates a blackboard and fills it with a list of tasks.  These tasks bring together eTaSL lua specifications of a constraint-based task,  and a set of parameters for these lua-specifications. See [Crospi](https://rob.pages.gitlab.kuleuven.be/crospi/)
- line 14-21 defines a simple application as a Sequence of robot motions.
   [CrospiTask][betfsm_crospi.CrospiTask] is used to execute an eTaSL task using Crospi. This BeTFSM node has many optional parameters, but only two obligatory: the name of the BeTFSM node and the task_name, i.e. the name in the laoded task list. [CrospiTask][betfsm_crospi.CrospiTask] checks for the `e_finished` event from
   Crospi and when finished cleans up and deactivates Crospi, if an error occurs, CrospiTask will take care that Crospi is deactivated and cleaned up.  You can
   manually deactivate and cleanup Crospy by using [CrospiDeactivate][betfsm_crospi.CrospiDeactivate], we used this to cleanup after the Ctrl-C event.
- Crospi can send more events related to a task (eTaSL's monitor).  You can handle these in two ways:
    - Call [CrospiTask][betfsm_crospi.CrospiTask] with the `event_check` parameter False. This will keep Crospi running after CrospiTask is finised, such
      that you can do some custom checking and use [CrospiDeactivate][betfsm_crospi.CrospiDeactivate] to stop Crospi.
    - You do an event check concurrently with the running CrospiTask by using [EventOutcome][betfsm.EventOutcome], [EventSequential][betfsm.EventSequential] or
      [EventConcurrent][betfsm.EventConcurrent], together with [TopicEvent_Condition][betfsm_ros.TopicEvent_Condition].  It is no problem to run these checks
      concurrently.  For each topic [TopicEvent_Condition][betfsm_ros.TopicEvent_Condition] will maintain a single queue for all instances.

### Checking at a given node of BeTFSM

Instead of immediately reacting to Ctrl-C, we could also only check for Ctrl-C at a given node.
This would allow e.g.a robot to continue until he is in a safe state before stopping.
[eventOutcome][betfsm.EventOutcome] is useful for these kinds of non-blocking checks.
In the event_map of the eventOutcome, we specify NO_EVENT: SUCCEED indicating that the node
immediately continues, if we would have chosen NO_EVENT: TICKING, it would on keeping ticking
until an event arrived.

```python linenums="1"
--8<-- "betfsm_demos/betfsm_demos/skill_example_4.py:29"
```


### CrospiOutput

[CrospiOutput][betfsm_crospi.CrospiOutput] listens to a topic and puts incomming messages in a FIFO queue with a given
size.  This queue is put in a specified location in the blackboard under two children "header" and "data".  The header is
taken from the labels of the first message that arrives.  The topic subscription is stopped when the underlying subtree
ends.

An example can be found [here](https://github.com/Robotics-Research-Group-KUL/betfsm/blob/main/betfsm_demos/betfsm_demos/example_with_output.py)

### Passing parameters to a cROSpi Task.

In crospi, constraint-based tasks are described using a task specification (`.etasl.lua`), from this json schema's can
be generated that describe the allowable parameters for these tasks.
